DOCSP-37496 - FAQ (#35)
mongodb/docs-pymongo: source/troubleshooting.txt

inserted in a preceding example:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> print(collection.find_one())
   {'_id': 1.0, 'subdocument': {'a': 1.0, 'b': 1.0}}

To preserve the order of keys when reading BSON, use the ``SON`` class,
which is a dictionary that remembers its key order.

The following code example shows how to create a collection
configured to use the ``SON`` class:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> from bson import CodecOptions, SON
   >>> opts = CodecOptions(document_class=SON)
   >>> opts
   CodecOptions(document_class=...SON..., tz_aware=False, uuid_representation=UuidRepresentation.UNSPECIFIED, unicode_decode_error_handler='strict', tzinfo=None, type_registry=TypeRegistry(type_codecs=[], fallback_encoder=None), datetime_conversion=DatetimeConversion.DATETIME)
   >>> collection_son = collection.with_options(codec_options=opts)

When you find the preceding subdocument, query results are represented with
``SON`` objects and key order is preserved:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> print(collection_son.find_one())
   SON([('_id', 1.0), ('subdocument', SON([('b', 1.0), ('a', 1.0)]))])

The subdocument's actual storage layout is now visible: "b" is before "a".

> Because a Python dictionary's key order is not defined, you cannot predict how it will be
> serialized *to* BSON. But MongoDB considers subdocuments equal only if their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because a Python dictionary's key order is not defined, you cannot predict how it will be
serialized to BSON, but MongoDB considers subdocuments equal only if their
```

keys besides "a" and "b", whereas the previous query required an exact match.

The second solution is to use a ``~bson.son.SON`` object to specify the key order:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> query = {'subdocument': SON([('b', 1.0), ('a', 1.0)])}
   >>> collection.find_one(query)
   {'_id': 1.0, 'subdocument': {'a': 1.0, 'b': 1.0}}

The key order you use when you create a ``~bson.son.SON`` is preserved
when it is serialized to BSON and used as a query. Thus, you can create a
subdocument that exactly matches the subdocument in the collection.

.. note:: 
   
   For more information about subdocument matching, see the
   `Query on Embedded/Nested Documents <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/tutorial/query-embedded-documents/>`__
   guide in the MongoDB Server documentation.

Why Do I Get OverflowError When Decoding Dates Stored by Another Language's Driver?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

{+driver-short+} decodes BSON ``datetime`` values to instances of Python's
``datetime.datetime`` class. Instances of ``datetime.datetime`` are
limited to years between ``datetime.MINYEAR`` (usually 1) and

> ``datetime.MAXYEAR`` (usually 9999). Some MongoDB drivers (for example, the PHP
> driver) can store BSON datetimes with year values far outside those supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``datetime.MAXYEAR`` (usually 9999). Some MongoDB drivers can store BSON datetimes with year values far outside those supported
```

``~bson.codec_options.DatetimeConversion.DATETIME``, which will
attempt to decode the value as a ``datetime.datetime``, allowing
``~builtin.OverflowError`` to occur for out-of-range dates.
``~bson.codec_options.DatetimeConversion.DATETIME_AUTO`` alters
this behavior to instead return ``~bson.datetime_ms.DatetimeMS`` when
representations are out-of-range, while returning ``~datetime.datetime``
objects as before:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> from datetime import datetime
   >>> from bson.datetime_ms import DatetimeMS
   >>> from bson.codec_options import DatetimeConversion
   >>> from pymongo import MongoClient
   >>> client = MongoClient(datetime_conversion=DatetimeConversion.DATETIME_AUTO)
   >>> client.db.collection.insert_one({"x": datetime(1970, 1, 1)})
   InsertOneResult(ObjectId('...'), acknowledged=True)
   >>> client.db.collection.insert_one({"x": DatetimeMS(2**62)})
   InsertOneResult(ObjectId('...'), acknowledged=True)
   >>> for x in client.db.collection.find():
   ...     print(x)
   ...
   {'_id': ObjectId('...'), 'x': datetime.datetime(1970, 1, 1, 0, 0)}
   {'_id': ObjectId('...'), 'x': DatetimeMS(4611686018427387904)}

For other options, see the

> ``~bson.codec_options.DatetimeConversion`` API.

Reviewer: Can we link to this API page?

Another option that does not involve setting ``datetime_conversion`` is to
filter out document values outside of the range supported by
``~datetime.datetime``:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> from datetime import datetime
   >>> coll = client.test.dates
   >>> cur = coll.find({'dt': {'$gte': datetime.min, '$lte': datetime.max}})

> Another option, assuming you don't need the ``datetime`` field, is to filter out
> just that field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option, if you don't need the ``datetime`` field, is to filter it out:
```
